# Homework week15  
### May 23  

Chapter 6  

P17.  
Recall that with the CSMA/CD protocol, the adapter waits K # 512 bit times after a collision, where K is drawn randomly. For K = 100, how long does the adapter wait until returning to Step 2 for a 100 Mbps broadcast channel? For a 1 Gbps broadcast channel?

- Solution:
The 512-bit time for 100Mbps is 5.12 * 10^-6 s.  
The result is K * 5.12*10^-6 = 0.512 ms.  
The 512-bit time for 1Gbps is 512 * 10^-9 s.
The result is K * 512*10^-9 = 51.2 µs.  


P19.  
Suppose nodes A and B are on the same 10 Mbps broadcast channel, and the propagation delay between the two nodes is 245 bit times. Suppose A and B send Ethernet frames at the same time, the frames collide, and then A and B choose different values of K in the CSMA/CD algorithm. Assuming no other nodes are active, can the retransmissions from A and B collide? For our purposes, it suffices to work out the following example. Suppose A and B begin transmission at t = 0 bit times. They both detect collisions at t = 245 t bit times. Suppose KA = 0 and KB = 1. At what time does B schedule its retransmission? At what time does A begin transmission? (Note: The nodes must wait for an idle channel after returning to Step 2—see protocol.) At what time does A’s signal reach B? Does B refrain from transmitting at its scheduled time?

- Solution:
The 512-bit time in 10Mbps channel is 51.2 µs.  
The 245-bit time in 10Mbps channel is 24.5 µs.  
Since KA =0, A retransmit packets immediately, at 24.5 µs.  
Besides, KB = 1, so B doesn't begin retransmissions until one 512-bit time, at 24.5+51.2 = 75.7 µs.  
Since A's packet arrives at B at 24.5+24.5 = 49µs < 75.7 µs, the retransmissions from A and B will not collide.  